CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to the Exiv2 Project
======================

# Contents #

* [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
* [2. Recommended Workflow for Contributing Code](#2-recommended-workflow-for-contributing-code)
* [3. Contributing Lens Data](#3-contributing-lens-data)
* [4. Reporting Bugs](#5-reporting-bugs)
   
# 1. Introduction #

This file describes how users and developers can contribute to the Exiv2 project. We welcome any help, like for example, contributing lens data (images), code contributions, and bug reports.
In the past this was organized using Redmine at: [dev.exiv2.org](http://dev.exiv2.org). As of April 2017 the Exiv2 project has moved from svn and Redmine to GitHub and information, such
as, Wikis etc., will gradually be moved from Redmine to GitHub. User requests on the Redmine forums and the Redmine issue tracking system will be serviced until Exiv2 0.27 is released. 
After 0.27 is released the Redmine site will be read-only and all feature requests, bug reports etc., must be performed on GitHub. It is, however, preferred to use GitHub for all new 
feature requests and bug reports to Exiv2.

# 2. Recommended Workflow for Contributing Code #

Here we describe the recommended code contribution workflow after switching to GitHub. Code contributions is performed by using *pull requests* (PR) on GitHub. 
For this to work one first needs to [create a user account on GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/signing-up-for-a-new-github-account/) if one do not 
already have one. A PR should preferable contain only one new feature/bug fix etc. Since it is not uncommon to work on several PRs at the same time 
it is recommended to create a new _branch_ for each PR. In this way PRs can easily be separated and the review and merge process becomes cleaner.
As a rule-of-thumb:

- PRs should be kept at a manageable size. Try to focus in just one goal per PR. If you find yourself doing several things in a PR that were not expected, 
then try to split the different tasks in different PRs.
- Commits should always change a *single* logical unit so that cherry-picking & reverting is simple.
- Commit messages should be as informative and concise as possible. The first line of the commit message should be < 80 characters and 
  describe the commit briefly. If the 80 characters are too short for a summary, then consider splitting the commit. Alternatively, below the short summary 
  add one blank line and then a more detailed explanation if required.

See the [GIT_GUIDELINES.md](GIT_GUIDELINES.md) file for a more detailed description on the git workflow. 

Also, there are two recommended ways to work on the code: 1) one can create a _fork_ of the main Exiv2 repository and work on that fork, or 2) one can create a branch
on the main repository and work in the branch. Using the "fork" method only you can push commits to your fork whereas on the latter method other Exiv2 team members 
can commit changes to the branch. Working on a branch on the main repository is the recommended method for team members since one needs push rights to the main repo
and all other developers should use the fork method which we will now describe in more detail.

Below we outline the recommended steps in the code contribution workflow. We use `your-username` to refer to your username on GitHub, `exiv2_upstream` is used when we 
set the upstream remote repository for Exiv2 (we could have picked any name by try to avoid already used names like, in particular, `origin` and `master`), and 
we use the name `my-new-feature` for the branch that we create (eg., the branch name should reflect the code change being made).

**Important**: If your PR lives for a long time, then don't press the button _Update branch_ in the Pull Request view, instead follow the steps below, as
that avoids additional merge commits.

Once you have a GitHub login:

1. Fork the Exiv2 git repository to your GitHub account by pressing the _Fork_ button at: [https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2](https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2) 
(more details [here](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/)).

2. Then start a terminal (or use your favorite git GUI app) and clone your fork of the Exiv2 repo:

        $  git clone https://github.com:your-username/exiv2.git

3. Next, create a branch for your PR:

        $ git checkout -b my-new-feature

4. Configure the project and check that it builds (CMake is our the preferred configuration system, but not the only one [see [README.md](README.md)]):

        $ cd exiv2
		$ rm -rf build
		$ mkdir build && cd build
		$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
		$ make
		
5. Set (add) the remote repository:

        $ git remote add exiv2_upstream https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2.git

	and verify that you have the two remotes configured correctly:

        $ git remote -v
        exiv2_upstream  https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2.git (fetch)
        exiv2_upstream  https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2.git (push)
        origin  https://github.com/your-username/exiv2.git (fetch)
        origin  https://github.com/your-username/exiv2.git (push)		

6. Now, make your change(s), add tests for your changes, and commit each change:

        ...
        
        $ git commit -m "Commit message 1"
        
        ...
        
        $ git commit -m "Commit message 2"

7. Make sure the tests pass:

        $ make tests         # Application tests
        $./bin/unit_tests    # Unit tests

	Exiv2's (new) test system is described in more detail in the [doc.md](tests/doc.md) and [writing_tests.md](tests/writing_tests.md) files, and a description of the old 
	test system can be found on the Redmine wiki: [How_do_I_run_the_test_suite_for_Exiv2](http://dev.exiv2.org/projects/exiv2/wiki/How_do_I_run_the_test_suite_for_Exiv2)

8. Push the changes to your fork on GitHub:

        $ git push origin my-new-feature

9. Create the PR by pressing the _New pull request_ button on: `https://github.com/your-username/exiv2`

10. Now wait for an Exiv2 project member(s) to respond to your PR. Follow the discussion on your PR at [https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/pulls](GitHub). 
   You may have to do some updates to your PR until it gets accepted.

11. After the PR has been reviewed you must _rebase_ your repo copy since there may have been several changes to the main upstream repo 
   (a PR can live for several days or even weeks).

	Switch to your branch again

        $ git checkout my-new-feature

	And rebase in top of master:

        $ git pull --rebase exiv2_upstream master

	When you do a rebase the commit history is rewritten and, therefore, the next time you try to push your branch to your fork repository you will need to use the `--force` option:

        $ git push --force

Also, follow the coding guidelines in the [CODING_GUIDELINES.md](CODING_GUIDELINES.md) file!

# 3. Contributing Lens Data #

In order for the Exiv2 project to, in particular, support a new lens we need an example image containing the Exif metadata for that lens. This is a good way for 
non-programmers to contribute to the project and example images can be submitted using the following procedure:

1. Create a new Issue by pressing the _New issue_ button here: [https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/issues](https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/issues),
2. In the new Issue, enter/add the lens mount and full lens name for each lens,
3. Take a (small) .jpg image (with the lens cap on) with each lens and transfer the .jpg file(s) to disk __without processing it__ in a desktop or server software (this is important to preserve the exif metadata in the file),
4. Attach the .jpg image(s) to the Issue [one can just drag-and-drop the image(s) or paste it/them from the clipboard].

Note that we are not only interested in non-supported lenses since we also look for example images to expand and improve the Exiv2 code tests.

# 4. Reporting Bugs #

Bugs should be reported by creating Issues on GitHub. However, before reporting a bug first check the Issue list if the bug is already known, and only if you cannot find any previous bug report 
then create a new Issue. When reporting a bug try describe the problem in as much detail as possible and if the bug is triggered by an input file then attach that file to the GitHub Issue.

Commit message:

Added a note about branching from exiv2_upstream/master

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to the Exiv2 Project
======================

# Contents #

* [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
* [2. Recommended Workflow for Contributing Code](#2-recommended-workflow-for-contributing-code)
* [3. Contributing Lens Data](#3-contributing-lens-data)
* [4. Reporting Bugs](#5-reporting-bugs)
   
# 1. Introduction #

This file describes how users and developers can contribute to the Exiv2 project. We welcome any help, like for example, contributing lens data (images), code contributions, and bug reports.
In the past this was organized using Redmine at: [dev.exiv2.org](http://dev.exiv2.org). As of April 2017 the Exiv2 project has moved from svn and Redmine to GitHub and information, such
as, Wikis etc., will gradually be moved from Redmine to GitHub. User requests on the Redmine forums and the Redmine issue tracking system will be serviced until Exiv2 0.27 is released. 
After 0.27 is released the Redmine site will be read-only and all feature requests, bug reports etc., must be performed on GitHub. It is, however, preferred to use GitHub for all new 
feature requests and bug reports to Exiv2.

# 2. Recommended Workflow for Contributing Code #

Here we describe the recommended code contribution workflow after switching to GitHub. Code contributions is performed by using *pull requests* (PR) on GitHub. 
For this to work one first needs to [create a user account on GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/signing-up-for-a-new-github-account/) if one do not 
already have one. A PR should preferable contain only one new feature/bug fix etc. Since it is not uncommon to work on several PRs at the same time 
it is recommended to create a new _branch_ for each PR. In this way PRs can easily be separated and the review and merge process becomes cleaner.
As a rule-of-thumb:

- PRs should be kept at a manageable size. Try to focus in just one goal per PR. If you find yourself doing several things in a PR that were not expected, 
then try to split the different tasks in different PRs.
- Commits should always change a *single* logical unit so that cherry-picking & reverting is simple.
- Commit messages should be as informative and concise as possible. The first line of the commit message should be < 80 characters and 
  describe the commit briefly. If the 80 characters are too short for a summary, then consider splitting the commit. Alternatively, below the short summary 
  add one blank line and then a more detailed explanation if required.

See the [GIT_GUIDELINES.md](GIT_GUIDELINES.md) file for a more detailed description on the git workflow. 

Also, there are two recommended ways to work on the code: 1) one can create a _fork_ of the main Exiv2 repository and work on that fork, or 2) one can create a branch
on the main repository and work in the branch. Using the "fork" method only you can push commits to your fork whereas on the latter method other Exiv2 team members 
can commit changes to the branch. Working on a branch on the main repository is the recommended method for team members since one needs push rights to the main repo
and all other developers should use the fork method which we will now describe in more detail.

Below we outline the recommended steps in the code contribution workflow. We use `your-username` to refer to your username on GitHub, `exiv2_upstream` is used when we 
set the upstream remote repository for Exiv2 (we could have picked any name by try to avoid already used names like, in particular, `origin` and `master`), and 
we use the name `my-new-feature` for the branch that we create (eg., the branch name should reflect the code change being made).

**Important**: If your PR lives for a long time, then don't press the button _Update branch_ in the Pull Request view, instead follow the steps below, as
that avoids additional merge commits.

Once you have a GitHub login:

1. Fork the Exiv2 git repository to your GitHub account by pressing the _Fork_ button at: [https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2](https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2) 
(more details [here](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/)).

2. Then start a terminal (or use your favorite git GUI app) and clone your fork of the Exiv2 repo:

        $  git clone https://github.com:your-username/exiv2.git

3. Next, create a branch for your PR from `exiv2_upstream/master` (this is important to avoid draging in old commits):

        $ git checkout exiv2_upstream/master
		$ git checkout -b my-new-feature
	You will get a warning about a detached head which can be ignored here.

4. Configure the project and check that it builds (CMake is our the preferred configuration system, but not the only one [see [README.md](README.md)]):

        $ cd exiv2
		$ rm -rf build
		$ mkdir build && cd build
		$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
		$ make
		
5. Set (add) the remote repository:

        $ git remote add exiv2_upstream https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2.git

	and verify that you have the two remotes configured correctly:

        $ git remote -v
        exiv2_upstream  https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2.git (fetch)
        exiv2_upstream  https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2.git (push)
        origin  https://github.com/your-username/exiv2.git (fetch)
        origin  https://github.com/your-username/exiv2.git (push)		

6. Now, make your change(s), add tests for your changes, and commit each change:

        ...
        
        $ git commit -m "Commit message 1"
        
        ...
        
        $ git commit -m "Commit message 2"

7. Make sure the tests pass:

        $ make tests         # Application tests
        $./bin/unit_tests    # Unit tests

	Exiv2's (new) test system is described in more detail in the [doc.md](tests/doc.md) and [writing_tests.md](tests/writing_tests.md) files, and a description of the old 
	test system can be found on the Redmine wiki: [How_do_I_run_the_test_suite_for_Exiv2](http://dev.exiv2.org/projects/exiv2/wiki/How_do_I_run_the_test_suite_for_Exiv2)

8. Push the changes to your fork on GitHub:

        $ git push origin my-new-feature

9. Create the PR by pressing the _New pull request_ button on: `https://github.com/your-username/exiv2`

10. Now wait for an Exiv2 project member(s) to respond to your PR. Follow the discussion on your PR at [https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/pulls](GitHub). 
   You may have to do some updates to your PR until it gets accepted.

11. After the PR has been reviewed you must _rebase_ your repo copy since there may have been several changes to the main upstream repo 
   (a PR can live for several days or even weeks).

	Switch to your branch again

        $ git checkout my-new-feature

	And rebase in top of master:

        $ git pull --rebase exiv2_upstream master

	When you do a rebase the commit history is rewritten and, therefore, the next time you try to push your branch to your fork repository you will need to use the `--force` option:

        $ git push --force

Also, follow the coding guidelines in the [CODING_GUIDELINES.md](CODING_GUIDELINES.md) file!

# 3. Contributing Lens Data #

In order for the Exiv2 project to, in particular, support a new lens we need an example image containing the Exif metadata for that lens. This is a good way for 
non-programmers to contribute to the project and example images can be submitted using the following procedure:

1. Create a new Issue by pressing the _New issue_ button here: [https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/issues](https://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/issues),
2. In the new Issue, enter/add the lens mount and full lens name for each lens,
3. Take a (small) .jpg image (with the lens cap on) with each lens and transfer the .jpg file(s) to disk __without processing it__ in a desktop or server software (this is important to preserve the exif metadata in the file),
4. Attach the .jpg image(s) to the Issue [one can just drag-and-drop the image(s) or paste it/them from the clipboard].

Note that we are not only interested in non-supported lenses since we also look for example images to expand and improve the Exiv2 code tests.

# 4. Reporting Bugs #

Bugs should be reported by creating Issues on GitHub. However, before reporting a bug first check the Issue list if the bug is already known, and only if you cannot find any previous bug report 
then create a new Issue. When reporting a bug try describe the problem in as much detail as possible and if the bug is triggered by an input file then attach that file to the GitHub Issue.
