.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIV2 1 "August 26, 2021"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
exiv2 \- Image metadata manipulation tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exiv2
[\fIoptions\fP] [\fIaction\fP] \fIfile\fP ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.B exiv2
is a program to read and write image metadata, including 
Exif, IPTC, XMP, image comments, ICC Profile, thumbnails, image 
previews and many vendor makernote tags.  The program optionally 
converts between Exif tags, IPTC datasets and XMP properties as 
recommended by the Exif Standard, the IPTC Standard, the XMP 
specification and the Metadata Working Group guidelines.
.br
The following image formats and metadata categories are supported:
.TS
lB lB lB lB lB lB lB
_	_	_	_	_	_	_
l l l l l l l.
Type	Exif	IPTC	XMP	Image Comments	ICC Profile	Thumbnail
ARW	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
AVIF	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
BMP	-	-	-	-	-	-
CR2	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
CR3	Read	Read	Read	-	Read	Read
CRW	Read/Write	-	-	Read/Write	-	Read/Write
DNG	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
EPS	-	-	Read/Write	-	-	-
EXV	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write
GIF	-	-	-	-	-	-
HEIC	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
HEIF	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
JP2	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
JPEG	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write
MRW	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
NEF	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
ORF	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	-	Read/Write
PEF	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
PGF	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-
PNG	-	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
PSD	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	-	Read/Write
RAF	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
RW2	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
SR2	Read	Read	Read	-	-	Read
SRW	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	-	Read/Write
TGA	-	-	-	-	-	-
TIFF	Read/Write	Read/Write	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
WEBP	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	-	Read/Write	Read/Write
XMP	-	-	Read/Write	-	-	-
.TE
.IP \(bu 2
Support for GIF, TGA and BMP images is minimal: the image format is
recognized, a MIME type assigned to it and the height and width of the
image are determined.
.IP \(bu 2
Reading other TIFF-like RAW image formats, which are not listed in the
table, may also work.
.IP \(bu 2
The thumbnail, if available, is included in the list of image previews.
.SH ACTIONS
The \fIaction\fP argument is only required if it is not clear from the
\fIoptions\fP which action is implied.
.TP
.B pr | print
Print image metadata.  This is the default action, i.e. the command
\fBexiv2 image.jpg\fP will print a summary of the image Exif metadata.
.TP
.B ex | extract
Extract metadata to *.exv, XMP sidecar (*.xmp), preview image, thumbnail 
or ICC profile file.
Modification commands can be applied on-the-fly.
.TP
.B in | insert
Insert metadata from corresponding *.exv, XMP sidecar (*.xmp), 
thumbnail or ICC profile files.  Use option \fB\--suffix\fP \fIsuf\fP to 
change the suffix of the input files.  Since files of any supported 
format can be used as input files, this command can be used to copy 
the metadata between files of different formats.  Modification commands 
can be applied on-the-fly.
.TP
.B rm | delete
Delete image metadata from the files.
.TP
.B ad | adjust
Adjust Exif timestamps by the given time.  Requires at least one of the
options \fB\--adjust\fP \fItime\fP, \fB\--years\fP \fI+-n\fP, \fB\--months\fP
\fI+-n\fP or \fB\--days\fP \fI+-n\fP. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B mo | modify
Apply commands to modify (add, set, delete) the Exif, IPTC and XMP
metadata of image files.  Requires option \fB\--comment\fP \fItxt\fP, 
\fB\--modify\fP \fIcmdfile\fP or \fB\--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP.
.TP
.B mv | rename
Rename files and/or set file timestamps according to the Exif create
timestamp.  Uses the value of tag Exif.Photo.DateTimeOriginal or, if
not present, Exif.Image.DateTime to determine the timestamp.  The
filename format can be set with \fB\--rename\fP \fIfmt\fP, timestamp options
are \fB\--timestamp\fP and \fB\--Timestamp\fP. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B fi | fixiso
Copy the ISO setting from one of the proprietary Nikon or Canon
makernote ISO tags to the regular Exif ISO tag,
Exif.Photo.ISOSpeedRatings.  Does not overwrite an existing standard
Exif ISO tag.
.TP
.B fc | fixcom
Fix the character encoding of Exif Unicode user comments.  Decodes the
comment using the auto-detected or specified character encoding and
writes it back in UCS-2.  Use option \fB\--encode\fP \fIenc\fP to specify the current
encoding of the comment if necessary.
.br
.ne 40
.SH COMMAND SUMMARY
.sp 1
.nf
\fBexiv2\fP [ \fIoption\fP [\fIarg\fP] ]+ [ \fIaction\fP ] \fIfile\fP ...
.sp 1
Where \fIfile\fP contains image metadata, optionally specified using a URL (http, https, ftp, sftp, data and file supported) or a wildcard pattern (e.g., *.jpg)
.sp 1
\fBoption\fP [\fIarg\fP]	\fBlong option\fP [\fIarg\fP]	Description
\fB-a\fP	\fItime\fP	\fB--adjust\fP	\fItime\fP	Automatically modify metadata time stamps. For the 'adjust' action ...
\fB-b\fP		\fB--binary\fP		Obsolete and should not be used. Reserved for use with the test suite
\fB-c\fP	\fItxt\fP	\fB--comment\fP	\fItxt\fP	JPEG comment string to set in the image. For the 'modify' action ...
\fB-d\fP	\fItgt1\fP	\fB--delete\fP	\fItgt1\fP	Delete target(s) for the 'delete' action ...
\fB-D\fP	\fI+-n\fP	\fB--days\fP	\fI+-n\fP	Automated adjustment of the days in metadata dates ...
\fB-e\fP	\fItgt3\fP	\fB--extract\fP	\fItgt3\fP	Extract target(s) for the 'extract' action ...
\fB-f\fP		\fB--force\fP		Do not prompt before overwriting existing files. For the 'rename' and 'extract' actions ...
\fB-F\fP		\fB--Force\fP		Do not prompt before renaming files. For the 'rename' and 'extract' actions ...
\fB-g\fP	\fIstr\fP	\fB--grep\fP	\fIstr\fP	Only output where \fIstr\fP matches in output text ...
\fB-h\fP		\fB--help\fP		Display help and exit
\fB-i\fP	\fItgt2\fP	\fB--insert\fP	\fItgt2\fP	Insert target(s) for the 'insert' action ...
\fB-k\fP		\fB--keep\fP		Preserve file timestamps when updating files ...
\fB-K\fP	\fIkey\fP	\fB--key\fP	\fIkey\fP	Report a key. Similar to \fB--grep\fP, however \fIkey\fP must match exactly ...
\fB-l\fP	\fIdir\fP	\fB--location\fP	\fIdir\fP	Location (directory) for files to be inserted or extracted ...
\fB-m\fP	\fIcmdfile\fP	\fB--modify\fP	\fIcmdfile\fP	Read commands from a file. For the 'modify' action ...
\fB-M\fP	\fIcmd\fP	\fB--Modify\fP	\fIcmd\fP	Modify the metadata with the command. For the 'modify' action ...
\fB-n\fP	\fIenc\fP	\fB--encode\fP	\fIenc\fP	Charset to decode Exif Unicode user comments ...
\fB-O\fP	\fI+-n\fP	\fB--months\fP	\fI+-n\fP	Automated adjustment of the months in metadata dates ...
\fB-p\fP	\fImod\fP	\fB--print\fP	\fImod\fP	Print report (common reports) ...
\fB-P\fP	\fIflg\fP	\fB--Print\fP	\fIflg\fP	Print report (fine grained control) ...
\fB-q\fP		\fB--quiet\fP		Silence warnings and error messages ...
\fB-Q\fP	\fIlvl\fP	\fB--log\fP	\fIlvl\fP	Set the log-level to 'd'(ebug), 'i'(nfo), 'w'(arning), 'e'(rror) or 'm'(ute) ...
\fB-r\fP	\fIfmt\fP	\fB--rename\fP	\fIfmt\fP	Filename format for the 'rename' action ...
\fB-S\fP	\fIsuf\fP	\fB--suffix\fP	\fIsuf\fP	Use suffix for source files when using the 'insert' command ...
\fB-t\fP		\fB--timestamp\fP		Set the file timestamp from Exif metadata. For the 'rename' action ...
\fB-T\fP		\fB--Timestamp\fP		Only set the file timestamp from Exif metadata. For the 'rename' action ...
\fB-u\fP		\fB--unknown\fP		Show unknown tags ...
\fB-v\fP		\fB--verbose\fP		Verbose
\fB-V\fP		\fB--version\fP		Show the program version and exit ...
\fB-Y\fP	\fI+-n\fP	\fB--years\fP	\fI+-n\fP	Automated adjustment of the years in metadata dates ...
.sp 1
\fIaction\fP	pr | ex | in | rm | ad | mo | mv | fi | fc
		print, extract, insert, delete, adjust, modify, rename, fixiso, fixcom

\fIcmd\fP		(\fBset\fP | \fBadd\fP) \fIkey\fP [[\fItype\fP] \fIvalue\fP] | \fBdel\fP \fIkey\fP [\fItype\fP] | \fBreg\fP \fIprefix\fP \fInamespace\fP
		(see \fBCommand format\fP)

\fIenc\fP		Values defined in \fBiconv_open\fP(3) (e.g., UTF-8)

\fIflg\fP		E | I | X | x | g | k | l | n | y | c | s | v | t | h
		Exif, IPTC, XMP, num, grp, key, label, name, type, count, size, vanilla, translated, hex

\fIfmt\fP		Default format: %Y%m%d_%H%M%S

\fIkey\fP		See \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP

\fIlvl\fP		d | i | w | e
		debug, info, warning, error

\fImod\fP		s | a | e | t | v | h | i | x | c | p | C | R | S | X
		summary, all, Exif, translated, vanilla, hex, IPTC, XMP, comment, preview,
		ICC Profile, Recursive Structure, Simple Structure, raw XMP

\fIsuf\fP		'.' then the file's extension (e.g., '.txt')

\fItime\fP	[+|-]HH[:MM[:SS[.mmm]]]
		(Default is \fB+\fP when \fB+\fP/\fB-\fP are missing)

\fItgt1\fP	a | c | e | i | I | t | x | C | -
		all, comment, Exif, IPTC, IPTC all, thumbnail, XMP, ICC Profile, stdin/out
		
\fItgt\fP2	a | c | e | i | t | x | C | X | XX | -
		all, comment, Exif, IPTC, thumbnail, XMP, ICC Profile, SideCar, Raw XMP, stdin/out

\fItgt3\fP	a | e | i | p | t | x | C | X | XX | -
		all, Exif, IPTC, preview, thumbnail, XMP, ICC Profile, SideCar, Raw XMP, stdin/out

\fItype\fP	An Exif, IPTC or XMP tag type (e.g., xmpText). See \fBExif/IPTC/XMP types\fP

\fI+-n\fP		The amount to change in the date (e.g., -3). Default is \fB+\fP when \fB+\fP/\fB-\fP are missing

.fi
.ne 40
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Display help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V, --version
Show the program version and exit.

When \fB\--version\fP is combined with \fB\--verbose\fP, build information
is printed to standard output along with a list of shared libraries which
have been loaded into memory. Verbose version is supported on Windows
(MSVC, Cygwin and MinGW builds), macOS and Linux and is provided for test 
and debugging. The library name and version number are always printed, even 
if output is filtered with \fB--grep\fP. 
.TP
.B \-v, --verbose
Be verbose during the program run.
.TP
.B \-q, --quiet
Silence warnings and error messages during the program run. Note that 
options \fB\--quiet\fP and \fB\--verbose\fP can be used at the same time.
.TP
.B \-Q \fIlvl\fP, --log \fIlvl\fP
Set the log-level to 'd'(ebug), 'i'(nfo), 'w'(arning), 'e'(rror)
or 'm'(ute), with the \fIlvl\fP chosen including those below it 
('d' <- 'i' <- 'w' <- 'e'). The default log-level is 'w'. \fB\--log\fP \fIm\fP 
is equivalent to \fB\--quiet\fP. All log messages are written to standard error.
.TP
.B \-u, --unknown
Show unknown tags. Default is to suppress tags which don't have a name (e.g., Exif.SonyMisc3c.0x022b).
.TP
.B \-g \fIstr\fP, --grep \fIstr\fP
When printing tags, display only those where \fIstr\fP is found in 
the key (see \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP). When \fB--grep\fP \fIstr\fP is used 
with \fB--verbose --version\fP, lines are included where \fIstr\fP matches in the 
variable or value.

Multiple \fB\--grep\fP options can be used to output additional data:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --version --grep webready --grep time
\&  exiv2 1.0.0.9
\&  time=11:01:53
\&  enable_webready=1
\&  xmlns=mediapro:http://ns.iview-multimedia.com/mediapro/1.0/
.fi 

When the \fB--print\fP \fImod\fP and \fB--Print\fP \fIflgs\fP options are not specified, the default is \fB--print\fP \fIa\fP:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep Date Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Image.DateTime                 Ascii    20  2015:07:16 20:25:28
\&  Exif.Photo.DateTimeOriginal         Ascii    20  2015:07:16 15:38:54
\&  Exif.Photo.DateTimeDigitized        Ascii    20  2015:07:16 15:38:54
\&  Exif.NikonWt.DateDisplayFormat      Byte      1  Y/M/D
\&  Exif.GPSInfo.GPSDateStamp           Ascii    11  2015:07:16
\&  Xmp.xmp.ModifyDate                  XmpText  25  2015-07-16T20:25:28+01:00
.fi
.sp 1
You may use \fB--print\fP \fImod\fP or \fB--Print\fP \fIflgs\fP to further filter output (\fB--print\fP \fIs\fP is ignored):

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --print x --grep Date Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmp.ModifyDate                           XmpText    25  2015-07-16T20:25:28+01:00
.fi
.sp 1
.br
\fIstr\fP can contain an optional \fI/i\fP modifier at the end, to indicate case insensitivity:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --print px --grep date/i Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmp.ModifyDate                           XmpText    25  2015-07-16T20:25:28+01:00
.TP
.B \-K \fIkey\fP, --key \fIkey\fP
Only reports tags for a given \fIkey\fP, which must match exactly 
(see \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP).

.sp 1
Multiple \fB\--key\fP options can be used to report more than a single key:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 \--key Exif.Photo.DateTimeDigitized --key Exif.Photo.DateTimeOriginal Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Photo.DateTimeOriginal                  Ascii      20  2015:07:16 15:38:54
\&  Exif.Photo.DateTimeDigitized                 Ascii      20  2015:07:16 15:38:54
.fi
.TP
.B \-n \fIenc\fP, --encode \fIenc\fP
Charset to use when decoding Exif Unicode user comments, where \fIenc\fP is
a name understood by \fBiconv_open\fP(3) (e.g., 'UTF-8').
.TP
.B \-k, --keep
Preserve file timestamps when updating files. Can be used with
all options which update files and is ignored by read-only
options.
.TP
.B \-t, --timestamp
Set the file timestamp according to the Exif create timestamp in
addition to renaming the file (overrides \fB\--keep\fP). This option is
only used with the 'rename' action. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B \-T, --Timestamp
Only set the file timestamp according to the Exif create timestamp, do
not rename the file (overrides \fB\--keep\fP). This option is only used
with the 'rename' action. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B \-f, --force or \-F, --Force
These options are used by the 'rename' and 'extract' actions to
determine the file overwrite policy. The options override the default 
behavior, which is to prompt the user if the filename already exists. 
These options are usually combined with \fB--verbose\fP, to provide 
additional status output.
.sp 1
The 'rename' action will overwrite files when \fB--force\fP is used. 
Instead, if \fB--Force\fP is used and the file already exists, the new filename 
is appended with '_1' ('_2', ...) to prevent data loss.
.sp 1
The 'extract' action will overwrite files when either \fB--force\fP or 
\fB--Force\fP is used.
.sp 1
For example, renaming a file using \fB--Force\fP, where the same filename 
has already been renamed:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --Force rename Stonehenge.jpg
\&  File 1/1: Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Renaming file to ./20150716_153854.jpg

\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --Force rename Stonehenge.jpg
\&  File 1/1: Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Renaming file to ./20150716_153854_1.jpg
.fi
.br
.TP
.B \-r \fIfmt\fP, --rename \fIfmt\fP
Filename format for the 'rename' action (See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP). 
The \fIfmt\fP string follows the definitions in \fBstrftime\fP(3), using 
Exif.Photo.DateTimeOriginal or Exif.Image.DateTime as the reference date 
and time. In addition, the following special character sequences are also 
provided:
.TS
l l l.
:basename:	Original filename without extension
:dirname:	Name of the directory holding the original file
:parentname:	Name of parent directory
.TE
.sp 1
The default \fIfmt\fP is %Y%m%d_%H%M%S
.sp 1
For example, renaming a file when \fIfmt\fP is made up of the basename, day, short month and long year:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --rename ':basename:_%d_%b_%Y' Stonehenge.jpg
\&  File 1/1: Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Renaming file to ./Stonehenge_16_Jul_2015.jpg
.fi
.sp 1
If the filename to rename to already exists and \fB--Force\fP and \fB--force\fP 
are not used, the user is prompted for an action.
.TS
l l.
[O]verwrite	Rename the file, overriding the existing one
[r]ename	Rename the file, but append '_1' ('_2', ...) to the new filename 
[s]kip	Cancel renaming this file 
.TE
.sp 1
For example, when renaming a second Stonehenge.jpg file:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --rename ':basename:_%d_%b_%Y' Stonehenge.jpg
\&  File 1/1: Stonehenge.jpg
\&  exiv2.exe: File `./Stonehenge_16_Jul_2015.jpg' exists. [O]verwrite, [r]ename or [s]kip? r
\&  Renaming file to ./Stonehenge_16_Jul_2015_1.jpg
.fi
.sp 1
.TP
.B \-a \fItime\fP, \--adjust \fItime\fP
Time adjustment, where \fItime\fP is in the format [\-]HH[:MM[:SS]]. This option is only
used with the 'adjust' action. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.sp 1
Examples of \fItime\fP are:

.TS
l l.
+1	Adds one hour
1:01	Adds one hour and one minute
-0:00:30	Subtracts 30 seconds.
.TE
.sp 1
.TP
.B \-Y \fI+-n\fP, --years \fI+-n\fP
Time adjustment by a positive or negative number of years, for
the 'adjust' action. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B \-O \fI+-n\fP, --months \fI+-n\fP
Time adjustment by a positive or negative number of months, for
the 'adjust' action. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B \-D \fI+-n\fP, \--days \fI+-n\fP
Time adjustment by a positive or negative number of days, for
the 'adjust' action. See \fBTZ\fP in \fBENVIRONMENT\fP.
.TP
.B \-p \fImode\fP, --print \fImode\fP, 
Print mode for the 'print' action (see \fBDESCRIPTION\fP, for metadata support in a file type). Possible modes are:
.TS
l l.
s	A summary of the Exif metadata (the default for the 'print' action)
a	Exif, IPTC and XMP metadata (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIkyct\fP)
e	Exif metadata (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIEkycv\fP)
t	Interpreted (translated) Exif tag values (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIEkyct\fP)
v	Plain (untranslated) Exif tag values (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIExgnycv\fP)
h	Hexdump of the Exif data (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIExgnycsh\fP)
i	IPTC datasets (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIIkyct\fP)
x	XMP properties (shortcut for \fB\--Print\fP \fIXkyct\fP)
c	JPEG comment
p	List available image previews, sorted by size in pixels (for example, see \fB--extract\fP \fItgt3\fP)
C	Image ICC Profile
R	Print image structure recursively (only for the 'debug' build with jpg, png, tiff, webp, cr2 and jp2 types)
S	Image structure information (jpg, png, tiff, webp, cr2 and jp2 types only)
X	"raw" XMP
.TE
.sp 1
\fB--print\fP \fImode\fP can be combined with \fB--grep\fP \fIstr\fP or \fB--key\fP \fIkey\fP to further filter the output.
.sp 1
For the order of the columns in the output, see \fB--Print\fP \fIflgs\fP.

.TP
.B \-P \fIflgs\fP, \-Print \fIflgs\fP
Print flags allows fine control of the tag list for the 'print' action 
(see \fBDESCRIPTION\fP, for metadata support in a file type). The option 
allows control of the type of metadata as well as data columns included in
the print output. Valid flags are:
.TS
l l.
E	Exif tags
I	IPTC datasets
X	XMP properties
x	Tag number for Exif or IPTC tags (in hexadecimal)
g	Group name (e.g., for Exif.Photo.UserComment, outputs Photo)
k	Key (e.g., Exif.Photo.UserComment)
l	Tag label (human readable tagname, e.g., for Exif.Photo.UserComment, outputs 'User comment')
n	Tagname (e.g., for Exif.Photo.UserComment, outputs UserComment)
y	Type (for available types, see \fBExif/IPTC/XMP types\fP)
c	Number of components (for single entry types, the number of \fBsizeof('type')\fP in 'size'. For multi-entry types, the number of entries. See \fBExif/IPTC/XMP types\fP)
s	Size in bytes
v	Plain data value (vanilla values, i.e., untranslated)
V	Plain data value AND the word 'set ' (for use with \fB--modify\fP \fI-\fP option)
t	Interpreted (translated) human readable data values
h	Hexdump of the data
.TE

The order of the values in \fIflgs\fP is not respected, with output 
displayed as follows:

.sp 1 
Tag number (x) | Plain 'set' (V) | Group (g) | Key (k)| Tagname (n)| Tagname label (l) | Type (y) | Components (c) | Size (s) | Value (E, I, X, v, t)
.sp 1
For example, displaying the IPTC tags in a file:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Print xgknlycsIt Stonehenge.jpg
\&  0x0000 Envelope     Iptc.Envelope.ModelVersion                   ModelVersion                Model Version                  Short       1   2  4
\&  0x005a Envelope     Iptc.Envelope.CharacterSet                   CharacterSet                Character Set                  String      3   3
\&  0x0000 Application2 Iptc.Application2.RecordVersion              RecordVersion               Record Version                 Short       1   2  4
\&  0x0078 Application2 Iptc.Application2.Caption                    Caption                     Caption                        String     12  12  Classic View
.fi
.sp 1
\fB--Print\fP \fIflgs\fP can be combined with \fB--grep\fP \fIstr\fP or \fB--key\fP \fIkey\fP to further filter the output.
.TP
.B \-d \fItgt1\fP, \--delete \fItgt1\fP
Delete target(s) for the 'delete' action. Possible targets are:
.TS
l l.
a	All supported metadata (the default for the 'delete' action)
e	Exif section
t	Exif thumbnail only
i	IPTC data
x	XMP packet
c	JPEG comment
C	ICC Profile
I	All IPTC data (removes broken metadata containing multiple IPTC blocks) 
.TE
.TP
.B \-i \fItgt2\fP, --insert \fItgt2\fP
Insert target(s) for the 'insert' action (see \fBDESCRIPTION\fP, for metadata support in a file type). Possible targets are:
.sp 1
.TS
l l.
a	All supported metadata (the default for the 'insert' action)
e	Exif section
t	Exif thumbnail. Only JPEG thumbnails can be inserted from a file called \fIfile-thumb.jpg\fP
i	IPTC data
x	XMP packet
c	JPEG comment
C	ICC Profile, inserted from a file called \fI<file>.icc\fP
X	Insert metadata from an XMP sidecar file, <file>.xmp. The remaining targets determine which metadata to include, possible are Exif, IPTC and XMP (default is all of these). Inserted XMP properties include those converted to Exif and IPTC
XX	Insert "raw" XMP metadata from a sidecar file, <file>.exv
-	Insert from stdin. This option is intended for "filter" operations
.TE
.sp 1
Filter operations between extract and insert are possible, using the following template; \fBxmllint\fP can be optionally used when extracting XMP sidecar files:
.sp 1
.nf
\&  $ exiv2 -e{tgt3}- filename | [ xmllint .... |] exiv2 -i{tgt2}- filename
.fi
.sp 1
.TP
.B \-e \fItgt3\fP, --extract \fItgt3\fP
Extract target(s) for the 'extract' action. Possible targets are:
.br
.TS
l l.
a	All supported metadata (the default for the 'extract' action)
e	Exif section
t	Extract Exif thumbnail only to a file called \fI<file>-thumb.jpg\fP
i	IPTC data
x	XMP packet
c	JPEG comment
p[<n>[,<m> ...]]	Extract preview images to files called \fI<file>-preview<n | m | ...>.jpg\fP (\fB--extract\fP \fIp\fP extracts all previews). The thumbnail is included in any preview images
C	Extract ICC profile, to a file called \fI<file>.icc\fP
X	Extract metadata to an XMP sidecar file, <file>.xmp, the remaining targets determine what metadata to extract (default is Exif, IPTC and XMP). Supported Exif and IPTC data is stored as XMP tags
XX	Extract "raw" XMP metadata to a sidecar . Other targets cannot be used with this, as only XMP data is written
-	Output to stdout (see \fB\--insert\fP \fItgt2\fP for an example of this feature)
.TE
.sp 1

When extracting preview images, first list which previews are available:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --print p Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Preview 1: image/jpeg, 160x120 pixels, 10837 bytes
.fi

then extract the preview by number (in this case, preview 1 is also the thumbnail):

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --extract p1 Stonehenge.jpg
\&  File 1/1: Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Writing preview 1 (image/jpeg, 160x120 pixels, 10837 bytes) to file ./Stonehenge-preview1.jpg
.fi
.sp 1
.TP
.B \-c \fItxt\fP, --comment \fItxt\fP
JPEG comment string to set in the image ('modify' action). This option
can also be used with the 'extract' and 'insert' actions to modify
metadata on-the-fly.
.TP
.B \-m \fIcmdfile\fP, --modify \fIcmdfile\fP
Command file for the 'modify' action (see \fBCommand file format\fP and 
\fB'MODIFY' COMMANDS\fP). This option can also be used with the 'extract' 
and 'insert' actions to modify metadata on-the-fly. \fB--modify\fP \fI-\fP reads 
modify commands from standard-input.
.TP
.B \-M \fIcmd\fP, --Modify \fIcmd\fP
Command line for the 'modify' action (see \fB'MODIFY' COMMANDS\fP). This option 
can also be used with the 'extract' and 'insert' actions to modify 
metadata on-the-fly. The format for the commands is the same as that 
of the lines of a command file.
.TP
.B \-l \fIdir\fP, --location \fIdir\fP
Location (directory) for files to be inserted from or extracted to.
.TP
.B \-S \fIsuf\fP, --suffix \fIsuf\fP
Use suffix \fIsuf\fP for source files when using 'insert' action (e.g., '.txt').
.br
.ne 40
.SS 'MODIFY' COMMANDS
Tags can be altered using the 'modify' action and \fB--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP 
or \fB--modify\fP \fIcmdfile\fP.

For example, adding an IPTC tag on the command line:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Iptc.Application2.Credit String Mr. Mills" Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

or applying a set of 'modify' commands from a file (see ['Modify' command File](#modify_cmd_file)):

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --modify cmd.txt Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

Multiple \fB--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP and \fB--modify\fP \fIcmdfile\fP 
options can be combined together, with the changes applied left to right on 
each file. For example, applying one command line 'modify' then a 'modify' 
command file, then another command line 'modify':

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Iptc.Application2.Caption Stonehenge" --modify cmdfile.txt --Modify "add Iptc.Application2.Keywords Monument" Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

A list of modify commands can be generated from an existing file using 
\fB--Print\fP \fIVkyv\fP. For example, only displaying the 'dc' 'modify' 
commands:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --Print Vkyv --grep dc Stonehenge.jpg
\&  set Xmp.dc.description                           LangAlt    lang="x-default" Classic View
\&  set Xmp.dc.Family                                XmpBag     Robin
.fi


Using \fB--modify\fP \fIcmdfile\fP, a command file can be read from stdin instead of 
being a named file. For example: 

.nf
\&  $ cat cmdfile.txt | exiv2 --modify - Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

When modifying, only a correct metadata structure is enforced and it is 
possible to write tags with types and values different from those specified 
in the standards. This can include incorrect types (e.g., change 
Exif.Image.DateTime to a Float), \fBDuplicate Exif tags\fP or incomplete metadata 
(e.g., deleting Exif.GPSInfo.GPSLatitudeRef, which works together with 
Exif.GPSInfo.GPSLatitude). While \fBexiv2\fP is able to read all metadata 
that it can write, other programs may have difficulties with images that 
contain non standards-defined metadata.

.TP
\fBQuotations with 'modify' commands\fP
With \fB--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP, quotation marks are use to surround the 
\fIcmd\fP. The Windows command line requires double quotes to be 
used, however generally, quotes inside that string, can be either single 
or double. Generally, UNIX based systems can use pairs of single or double 
quotes in any position. In both systems, inner string quotation marks may 
need to use the '\' escape sequence.

See note on quotations when using \fBXMP LangAlt values\fP.


.TP
\fB'Modify' command format\fP
The format of a command is:

( \fBset\fP | \fBadd\fP ) \fIkey\fP [ [ \fItype\fP ] \fIvalue\fP ] | \fBdel\fP \fIkey\fP [ \fItype\fP ] | \fBreg\fP \fIprefix\fP \fInamespace\fP

Where:

.TS
l l.
\fBadd\fP	Adds a tag. For Exif and IPTC repeatable tags, this adds a new tag, otherwise this replaces any existing tag (see \fBMultiple elements\fP and \fBDuplicate Exif tags\fP)
\fBset\fP	Set the *value* of an existing tag with a matching \fIkey\fP or if undefined, \fBadd\fP the tag. If \fBDuplicate Exif tags\fP or IPTC repeatable tags already exist, this replaces them (see \fBMultiple elements\fP)
\fBdel\fP	Delete all occurrences of a tag that matches *key*, including any duplicate tags
\fBreg\fP	Registers an XMP \fInamespace\fP with an XMP \fIprefix\fP (see \fBXMP namespaces\fP) If registering an existing \fIprefix\fP with a different \fInamespace\fP, then the namespace is updated
.TE

using the parameters:

.TS
l l.
\fIkey\fP	An Exif, IPTC or XMP key (see \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP)
\fItype\fP	The type for the tag, a default is used if none is given. For built-in tags, the default is defined in the standard and for registered XMP tags, the default is XmpText (see \fBExif/IPTC/XMP types\fP)
\fIvalue\fP	The remaining text on the line is the value, and can optionally be enclosed in quotes (see \fBQuotations with 'modify' commands\fP). For Ascii, XmpAlt, XmpBag, XmpSeq and XmpText, the value is optional which is equivalent to an empty value ("")
\fIprefix\fP	This is the XMP 'Group' that is being registered. This is case sensitive and must be unique within an image's metadata. e.g., For an "Exiv2" *prefix*, the tags for that group are available as Xmp.Exiv2.Tagname
\fInamespace\fP	An identifier for the prefix. This is case sensitive and must be unique within an image's metadata. Built-in namespaces use a URL format, but they are not required to exist
.TE

.TP
\fBSetting a Rational or SRational value\fP
For the 'Rational' and 'SRational' formats, see \fBExif/IPTC/XMP types\fP. 

For example, modifying a 'Rational' number:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify"set Exif.Photo.MaxApertureValue 2485427/500000" Stonehenge.jpg
.fi


.TP
\fBSetting an aperture value\fP
Exif aperture values are stored in an apex-value format and when using the 
translated print option, are output as an Fnumber value. The APEX Fnumber 
translations use the formulae (in base 2):

.nf
apex-value  = log(Fnumber) * 2.0 / log(2.0)
Fnumber     = exp(apex-value * log(2.0) / 2.0)
.nf

The apex-value is a Rational and can be modified as shown in \fBSetting a Rational or SRational value\fP, 
however a convenience method is also provided to set an Fnumber directly. 
This uses the format:

.nf
\fBF\fP\fI<value\>\fP
.fi

Where \fI<value\>\fP is either an integer or decimal number.

For example, the following modify will produce the same value as the 
example in \fBSetting a Rational or SRational value\fP. This is displayed 
in vanilla and translated output:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Exif.Photo.MaxApertureValue F5.6" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --print e --grep MaxApertureValue Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Photo.MaxApertureValue                  Rational    1  2485427/500000
\&  $ exiv2 --print t --grep MaxApertureValue Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Photo.MaxApertureValue                  Rational    1  F5.6
.fi

More information about APEX values is available from: \fIhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APEX_system\fP

.TP
\fBSetting a Comment value\fP
For the 'Comment' format, see \fBExif 'Comment' values\fP.

For example, to set an Ascii comment:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Exif.Photo.UserComment charset=Ascii Photo" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep UserComment Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Photo.UserComment                       Undefined  13  charset=Ascii Photo
.fi

or a Unicode comment:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Exif.GPSInfo.GPSProcessingMethod charset=Unicode \\u0047\\u0050\\u0053" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep GPSProcessingMethod Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.GPSInfo.GPSProcessingMethod             Undefined  14  charset=Unicode GPS
.fi

.TP
\fBRegistering an XMP namespace\fP
For help with namespaces, see \fBXMP namespaces\fP.

Each XMP \fInamespace\fP has a \fIprefix\fP 
associated with it. For example, when modifying, this is declared using 
the string:

.nf
\&  --Modify "reg myprefix http://ns.myprefix.me/"
.fi

When a non-standard group or tag belonging to that group is modified, the 
appropriate 'reg' 'modify' command must be included before that. For example, 
adding a 'myPhotos' group with a 'weather' tag and values:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "reg myPhotos http://ns.myPhotos.org/" --Modify "add Xmp.myPhotos.weather XmpBag Cloudy" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "reg myPhotos http://ns.myPhotos.org/" --Modify "set Xmp.myPhotos.weather XmpBag Sunny" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "reg myPhotos http://ns.myPhotos.org/" --Modify "set Xmp.myPhotos.weather XmpBag Hot" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep myPhotos Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.myPhotos.weather                         XmpBag      3  Cloudy, Sunny, Hot
.fi

.TP
\fBAdding new XMP tags\fP
Provided that an XMP's group is defined (see \fBRegistering an XMP namespace\fP), 
new tags can be added by assigning values.

For example, to add a \fIRatingInPercent\fP tag to a built-in namespace and 
a \fISurname\fP tag to a registered namespace:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmp.RatingInPercent XmpText 98" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "reg cm2e http://clanmills.com/exiv2/" --Modify "add Xmp.cm2e.Surname XmpText Mills" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep RatingInPercent --grep Surname Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmp.RatingInPercent                      XmpText     2  98
\&  Xmp.cm2e.Surname                             XmpText     5  Mills
.fi

.TP
\fBSetting an XMP LangAlt value\fP
For the LangAlt format, see \fBXMP LangAlt values\fP. When 
setting a LangAlt tag, only one entry is allowed per modify.

For example, adding one default, one language/country and one language entry:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Xmp.dc.description LangAlt Monument" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Xmp.dc.description LangAlt lang=de-DE das Monument" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Xmp.dc.description LangAlt lang="fr" les monuments" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep description Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.dc.description                           LangAlt     3  lang="x-default" Monument, lang="de-DE" das Monument, lang="fr" les monuments
.fi

To remove a language specification, set the value to the empty string. 
For example:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "set Xmp.dc.description lang=de-DE" Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

To remove all language specifications, delete the key. For example:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "del Xmp.dc.description" Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

.TP
\fBSetting an XMP struct value\fP
For the format of XMP structs, see \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP and \fBXMP structs\fP.

To create a struct, first set the base key to an empty version of an array 
type. This can be achieved by either stating the array type and using the 
empty string, or by using XmpText and stating the array type.

For example, both of the following set the Xmp.xmpMM.History tag to an 
empty XmpSeq:

.nf
\&  --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History XmpSeq \"\""
\&  --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History XmpText type=Seq"
.fi

Numbered keys plus name and action can then be added.
 
For example, setting the Xmp.xmpMM.History tag to record the file being 
converted from tiff to JPEG, then saved:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History XmpSeq \"\"" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:action derived" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:parameters converted from image/tiff to image/jpeg, saved to new location" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:action saved" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:instanceID xmp.iid:89A4EB97412C88632107D65978304F45" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:when 2021-08-13T10:12:09+01:00" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:softwareAgent MySuperPhotoFixer 1.0" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep xmpMM Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History                            XmpText     0  type="Seq"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]                         XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:action            XmpText     7  derived
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:parameters        XmpText    62  converted from image/tiff to image/jpeg, saved to new location
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]                         XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:action            XmpText     5  saved
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:instanceID        XmpText    40  xmp.iid:89A4EB97412C88632107D65978304F45
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:when              XmpText    25  2021-08-13T10:12:09+01:00
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:softwareAgent     XmpText    21  MySuperPhotoFixer 1.0
.fi

Nested arrays are permitted. For example, to add an additional XmpSeq to 
the first struct in the Xmp.xmpMM.History tag:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:myBag XmpText type=Bag" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[1]/stEvt:action open a file" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[2]/stEvt:action convert" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --Modify "add Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[3]/stEvt:action save" Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep xmpMM Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep xmpMM Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History                            XmpText     0  type="Seq"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]                         XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:action            XmpText     7  derived
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:parameters        XmpText    62  converted from image/tiff to image/jpeg, saved to new location
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq             XmpText     0  type="Seq"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[1]          XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[1]/stEvt:action XmpText    11  open a file
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[2]          XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[2]/stEvt:action XmpText     7  convert
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[3]          XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:mySeq[3]/stEvt:action XmpText     4  save
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]                         XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:action            XmpText     5  saved
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:instanceID        XmpText    40  xmp.iid:89A4EB97412C88632107D65978304F45
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:when              XmpText    25  2021-08-13T10:12:09+01:00
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:softwareAgent     XmpText    21  MySuperPhotoFixer 1.0
.fi

.TP
\fB'Modify' command file\fP
Commands for the 'modify' action can be read from a file. They are executed 
line-by-line, as though each command were passed to \fB--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP 
on a single \fBexiv2\fP line. In the file, any blank lines or additional white 
space is ignored and any lines beginning with a '#' are comments. When 
registering namespaces, place this in the file before the command to use it.

For help creating a command file from an existing file, see \fBExtracting modify commands\fP.

For example, a 'cmd.txt' file:

.nf
\&  # Comments are ignored
\&  add Xmp.dc.description LangAlt lang="x-default" Monument
\&  set Xmp.dc.description LangAlt lang="de-DE" das Monument
\&  
\&  # This command was generated from a file. Additional whitespace is ignored
\&  set Xmp.xmp.Rating                               XmpText    0
\&  
\&  # Additional whitespace is ignored
\&    del Iptc.Application2.Caption
\&  
\&  # Use 'reg' before modifying any non-standard 'Group'
\&  reg myPhotos https://ns.myPhotos.org/
\&  set Xmp.myPhotos.weather Cloudy
.fi

would be run using:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --modify cmd.txt Stonehenge.jpg
.fi

For another example, see: \fIhttps://www.exiv2.org/sample.html\fP
.br
.ne 40
.SH EXIV2 GROUPS, TYPES AND VALUES

Exiv2 supports Exif 2.32, Adobe XMP 4.4.0 by default, although can be built with newer versions of the SDK, and many manufacturer's MakerNotes.

.SS Exiv2 tags
See \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP for the format of a key. The following groups are defined for the Exif family:
.sp 1

.TS
l l l l l l.
GPSInfo	Canon	Nikon1	NikonMe	OlympusFe8	SonyMisc2b
Image	CanonCf	Nikon2	NikonPc	OlympusFe9	SonyMisc3c
Image2	CanonCs	Nikon3	NikonPreview	OlympusFi	SonyMinolta
Image3	CanonFi	NikonAFT	NikonSi01xx	OlympusIp	SonySInfo1
Iop	CanonPa	NikonAf	NikonSi02xx	OlympusRd	
MakerNote	CanonPi	NikonAf	NikonSiD300a	OlympusRd2	Samsung2
MpfInfo	CanonPr	NikonAf2	NikonSiD300b	OlympusRi	SamsungPictureWizard
Photo	CanonSi	NikonAf22	NikonSiD40		SamsungPreview
SubImage1	CanonTi	NikonCb1	NikonSiD80	Sigma	
SubImage2		NikonCb2	NikonVr		
SubImage3	Casio	NikonCb2a	NikonWt	Sony1	
SubImage4	Casio2	NikonCb2b		Sony1Cs	
SubImage5		NikonCb3	Olympus	Sony1Cs2	
SubImage6	Minolta	NikonCb4	Olympus2	Sony1MltCs7D	
SubImage7	MinoltaCs5D	NikonFi	OlympusCs	Sony1MltCsA100	
SubImage8	MinoltaCs7D	NikonFl1	OlympusEq	Sony1MltCsNew	
SubImage9	MinoltaCsNew	NikonFl2	OlympusFe1	Sony1MltCsOld	
SubThumb1	MinoltaCsOld	NikonFl3	OlympusFe2	Sony2	
Thumbnail		NikonIi	OlympusFe3	Sony2Cs	
	Panasonic	NikonLd1	OlympusFe4	Sony2Cs2	
Pentax	PanasonicRaw	NikonLd2	OlympusFe5	Sony2010e	
PentaxDng		NikonLd3	OlympusFe6	Sony2Fp	
	Fujifilm	NikonLd4	OlympusFe7	SonyMisc1	
.TE
.sp 1
A full list of built-in Exif, IPTC and XMP tags is available online at 
\fIhttps://www.exiv2.org/metadata.html\fP. To query Exiv2 Groups and Tagnames, 
a sample program called \fItaglist\fP is provided (see 
\fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/blob/main/README-SAMPLES.md\fP), which 
can be built from source (see \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/blob/main/README.md\fP) or 
downloaded from \fIhttps://www.exiv2.org/download.html\fP.
.sp 1
For the Exif, IPTC and XMP groups:
.sp 1
.IP \(bu
The same tags that are available in Exif's Image group (e.g., \fIExif.Image.XResolution\fP), 
are also available in Exif's Thumbnail, Image(2|3), SubImage(1-9) and 
SubThumb1 groups, (e.g., \fIExif.Thumbnail.XResolution\fP).
.sp 1
.IP \(bu
Many camera manufacturer tags are available and are accessed as different 
Exif groups, using the manufacturer's name as a prefix (e.g., CanonCs is the 
Camera Settings for a Canon camera). Groups called the manufacturer name 
plus number, access the main tags in different file formats (e.g., Sony1 is for 
JPEGs, Sony2 is for others such as TIFF and ARW). Groups are available for 
use, depending upon which camera manufacturer and model captured the photo. 
Supporting the large number of tags for all the different manufacturers 
is an ongoing task, only partial support is available. The full unprocessed 
makernotes data is available in Exif.Photo.MakerNote.
.sp 1
.IP \(bu
Every Exif tag and IPTC dataset has a tag number (16 bit, 2 byte integer), 
which is unique within a Group (to display, see \fB--Print\fP \fIx\fP).
.sp 1
.IP \(bu
Some of the Exif tags and IPTC datasets are mirrored in the XMP specification 
(see \fIhttps://www.exiv2.org/metadata.html\fP).
.sp 1
.IP \(bu
The XMP specification is flexible and allows new custom Groups and 
Tagnames to be added (see \fBCommand format\fP).
.sp 1
For example, the 'cm2e' Group has been added, which has 'Father' and 'Family' 
Tagnames. Additionally, a 'Family' tag has been added to the built-in 'dc' Group:
.sp 1
.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --print x Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmp.Rating                               XmpText     1  0
\&  Xmp.xmp.ModifyDate                           XmpText    25  2015-07-16T20:25:28+01:00
\&  Xmp.cm2e.Father                              XmpText    11  Robin Mills
\&  Xmp.cm2e.Family                              XmpBag      0
\&  Xmp.dc.description                           LangAlt     1  lang="x-default" Classic View
\&  Xmp.dc.Family                                XmpBag      1  Robin
.fi
.IP \(bu
Further information on Exiv2 groups can be found on the Exiv2 wiki: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/wiki\fP
.sp 1
.ne 20
.sp 1
.SS Exif/IPTC/XMP types
.fi
Each tag uses a specific type to store the value, with all elements in any array having the same type. Available types for the 
different 'Family' categories are:
.sp 1
.TP
\fBExif\fI
.TS
lB lB lB lB
_	_	_	_
l l l l.
Type	Format	Element	Comment
Short	A 16-bit (2-byte) unsigned integer	Single	
Long	A 32-bit (4-byte) unsigned integer	Single
Rational	Two Long types. Numerator and denominator	Single	Use as X/Y (e.g., "31/1" is 31.0)
Byte	A string of 8-bit unsigned integers	Single	
SShort	A 16-bit (2-byte) signed integer	Single
SLong	A 32-bit (4-byte) signed integer	Single
SRational	Two SLong types. Numerator and denominator	Single	Use as [ + | - ]X/Y (e.g., "-31/1" is -31.0)
SByte	A string of 8-bit signed integers	Single	
Float	Signed single precision (4-byte) IEEE format	Single	Use as a signed decimal (e.g., "-0.5" is -0.5)
Double	Signed double precision (8-byte) IEEE format	Single	Use as a signed decimal (e.g., "-0.5" is -0.5)
Ascii	A string of 7-bit ASCII. NULL terminated	Single	Use as a string (e.g., "Value")
Comment	A string of 7-bit ASCII. NULL terminated	Single	Use as a string (e.g., "Value"). See \fIValue\fP in \fBCommand format\fP
Undefined	A string of 8-bit bytes	Single	Use as a string (e.g., "Value")
.TE
.sp 1
.TP
\fBIPTC\fP
.TS
lB lB lB lB
_	_	_	_
l l l l.
Type	Format	Element	Comment
String	A string of ASCII	Single	
Short	A 16-bit (2-byte) unsigned integer	Single
Date	A string of ASCII (8 bytes)	Single	See \fBDate/Time formats\fP
Time	A string of ASCII (11 bytes)	Single	See \fBDate/Time formats\fP
Undefined	A string of 8-bit bytes	Single	Use as a string (e.g., "Value")
.TE
.sp 1
.TP
\fBXMP\fP
.TS
lB lB lB lB
_	_	_	_
l l l l.
Type	Format	Element	Comment
LangAlt	A string of text	Multi	Similar to XmpAlt. Alternative text for different languages, e.g., 'lang="x-default" Black, lang="fr-FR" Noir' (see \fBMultiple elements\fP and \fBCommand format\fP)
XmpAlt	A string of text	Multi	An ordered array, any default value is first
XmpBag	A string of text	Multi	An unordered array (e.g., 3 values, "Red, Yellow, Green"), see \fBMultiple elements\fP and \fBCommand format\fP
XmpSeq	A string of text	Multi	An ordered array (e.g., 3 values, "Gold, Silver, Bronze"), see \fBMultiple elements\fP and \fBCommand format\fP
XmpText	A string of text	Single	
.TE
.sp 1
.SS
\fBExiv2 key syntax\fP

The standard format for Exif and IPTC tags is:

\fIFamily\fP.\fIGroup\fP.\fITagname\fP

.TS
l l.
\fIFamily\fP	Either 'Exif' or 'Iptc'
\fIGroup\fP	The tag group within the family. e.g., for Exif, 'Image'
\fITagname\fP	The tagname within a family and group. e.g., For Exif.Image, 'Model'
.TE

For example, Exif.Image.Model or Iptc.Application2.Subject .

In addition to the standard key syntax, XMP can also use an extended format:

\fIFamily\fP.\fIGroup\fP.\fITagname\fP[ \fI\<index\>\fP[ \fI\<value_types\>\fP ] ]+

.TS
l l.
\fIFamily\fP	i.e. 'Xmp'
\fIGroup\fP	The tag group within the family. e.g., for Xmp, 'dc'
\fITagname\fP	The tagname within a family and group. e.g., For Xmp.dc, 'subject'
\fI\<index\>\fP	An integer (1,...,n) surrounded by square brackets (e.g., [n], is the n'th item in the 'array')
\fI\<value_types\>\fP	This is  \fI/name1\fP : \fIname2\fP (e.g., /dim:length). Within a \fIFamily.Group.Tagname[n]\fP and nested arrays, only one type of \fI/name1\fP identifier is allowed, but many \fIname2\fP values
.TE

For example, the Xmp.xmpMM.History tag would use the extended key:

.nf
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:action
.fi

Nested structures are permitted and use multiple [ \fI\<index\>\fP [ \fI\<value_types\>\fP ] ]
in the key. For example, if an Xmp.xmpMM.History tag defined an additional 
nested array struct, the extended key would be:

.nf
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:myArray[1]/myName1:myName2
.fi

See \fBXMP structs\fP and \fBSetting an XMP struct value\fP.

More information about XMP keys and conventions for \fI\<value_types\>\fP is 
available from: \fIhttps://www.adobe.com/content/dam/acom/en/devnet/xmp/pdfs/XMPSDKReleasecc-2020/XMPSpecificationPart2.pdf#G4.1132618\fP

.SS
\fBMultiple elements\fP
Some IPTC datasets and XMP properties allow multiple elements to be stored, although they both do this in different ways.
.TP
\fBIPTC\fP
.sp 1
IPTC datasets marked as repeatable, can have multiple entries with the 
same key (Family.Group.Tagname) in the image metadata (for supported datasets, 
see \fIhttps://www.exiv2.org/iptc.html\fP, column R).
For example, a file containing three Iptc.Application2.Subject values:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --grep Application2 Stonehenge_with_extra_data.jpg
\&  Iptc.Application2.RecordVersion              Short       1  4
\&  Iptc.Application2.Caption                    String     12  Monument
\&  Iptc.Application2.Subject                    String     10  Stonehenge
\&  Iptc.Application2.Subject                    String      6  Cloudy
\&  Iptc.Application2.Subject                    String      5  Grass
.fi

.TP
\fBXMP\fP
.sp 1
XMP multiple values are grouped together within the same tag, using ", " as  
a separator (see \fBExif/IPTC/XMP types\fP for supported types). If a default 
value exists for a LangAlt or XmpAlt tag, then this is the first item listed.
For example, a file containing two Xmp.dc.description values (for format, see 
\fBCommand format\fP) and three Xmp.dc.subject values:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --grep description --grep subject Stonehenge_with_extra_data.jpg
\&  Xmp.dc.description                           LangAlt     1  lang="x-default" Monument, lang="de-DE" das Monument
\&  Xmp.dc.subject                               XmpBag      3  Stonehenge, Cloudy, Grass
.fi
.ne 8
.fi
.SS
\fBDuplicate Exif tags\fP
The Exif specification allows for duplicate tags, but this is currently 
unused by any current tag definitions.
.SS Date/Time formats
.fi
The times and dates are stored using different formats in image metadata. 
.TP
\fBExif\fP
.sp 1
An Exif DateTime string is stored as 20 ascii bytes (including trailing NULL) in the format:
.RS
.IP
YYYY:MM:DD HH:mm:SS 
.sp 1
.RE
.IP
where YYYY:MM:DD is the year, month and day and HH:mm:SS is the hour, minute 
and second (e.g., "2010:09:15 08:45:21" is 08:45:21 on 15-Aug-10).
.IP
The options \fB--timestamp\fP and \fB--Timestamp\fP will accept files 
in which the Date part, has been incorrectly stored as YYYY-MM-DD.
.TP
\fBIPTC\fP
.sp 1
An IPTC 'Date' type is stored in the format:
.sp 1
.RS
.IP
YYYY-MM-DD
.RE
.IP
where YYYY-MM-DD is the year, month and day (e.g., "2010-09-15" is 15-Aug-10).
.sp 1
An IPTC 'Time' type is stored in the format:
.RS
.IP
HH:MM:SScHH:MM
.RE
.IP
where HH:MM:SS refers to local time's hour, minutes and seconds and, HH:MM 
refers to hours and minutes with c being ahead (+) or behind (-) Universal 
Coordinated Time (UCT) (e.g., 08:45:15+01:00 is 
08:45:15, which is +1 hour different from UCT).
.TP
\fBMakernote tags\fP
.sp 1
There is no one single format. Different camera manufacturers use different 
formats, even within their own sets of tags. Some tags use encoded data 
that does not conform to any official format.

.SS
\fBExif 'Comment' values\fP
Exif 'Comment' values can include an optional charset definition to explain 
how to interpret the rest of the value. This is used by tags such as 
Exif.Photo.UserComment, Exif.GPSInfo.GPSProcessingMethod and 
Exif.GPSInfo.GPSAreaInformation.

The format of the value is:

[ \fBcharset=\fP ( \fIAscii\fP | \fIJis\fP | \fIUnicode\fP | \fIUndefined\fP ) ] comment

If the charset is not specified then the default is \fIUndefined\fP.

For example, if Ascii and Unicode Comments have been set:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --grep UserComment --grep GPSProcessingMethod Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Photo.UserComment                       Undefined  16  charset=Ascii Monument
\&  Exif.GPSInfo.GPSProcessingMethod             Undefined  14  charset=Unicode GPS
.fi

The reported size of the 'value' is calculated as:

.nf
\&  8 Bytes (for the "charset=val ") + (the rest of the value) * (2 Bytes for Unicode, otherwise 1 Byte)
.fi

.SS
\fBXMP namespaces\fP
Every XMP 'Group' (called a \fIprefix\fP) has an identifier (called a 
\fInamespace\fP) associated with it. Within an image's metadata, both 
namespaces and prefixes are unique. 

\fBexiv2\fP has standards defined prefixes and namespaces built-in, which 
can be displayed in the format:
 
.nf
\&  `xmlns=<prefix>:<namespace>
.fi

For example, here, only a couple are shown:

.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --version --grep xmlns
\&  ...
\&  xmlns=xmp:http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/ 
\&  xmlns=dc:http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/
\&  ...
.fi

To list the XMP prefixes and namespaces used by an image's metadata, in the 
format:

.nf
\&  xmlns:<prefix>=<namespace>
.fi

extract a sidecar file to stdout. For example, here, other data is not included:

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --extract X- Stonehenge.jpg
\&  <?xpacket begin="" id="W5M0MpCehiHzreSzNTczkc9d"?>
\&  <x:xmpmeta xmlns:x="adobe:ns:meta/" x:xmptk="XMP Core 4.4.0-Exiv2">
\&   <rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#">
\&    <rdf:Description rdf:about=""
\&      xmlns:xmp="http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/"
\&      xmlns:cm2e="http://clanmills.com/exiv2/"
\&      xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
\&      xmlns:tiff="http://ns.adobe.com/tiff/1.0/"
\&      xmlns:exif="http://ns.adobe.com/exif/1.0/"
\&      xmlns:photoshop="http://ns.adobe.com/photoshop/1.0/"
\&     xmp:Rating="0"
\&     xmp:ModifyDate="2015-07-16T20:25:28+01:00"
\&     xmp:CreateDate="2015-07-16T15:38:54.00"
\&  ...
.fi

New XMP namespaces can be registered, allowing new 'Groups' and 'Tagnames' 
to be created (see \fBRegistering an XMP namespace\fP).

Within an image's metadata, built-in prefixes can be re-registered with 
different namespaces. In this case, \fBexiv2\fP will use any new definitions.

.SS
\fBXMP LangAlt values\fP
A 'LangAlt' string provides alternative text for different languages, with 
individual entries separated using a  ', '. Each entry is in the format:

[ \fBlang=\fP( \fIx-default\fP | \fI<lang>\fP | \fI<lang>\fP-\fI\<country>\fP ] text

.TS
l l.
x-default	The default value. If defined, a LangAlt string always lists this entry first
lang	A language code as defined in \fIhttps://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3066.txt\fP
country	A country code as defined in \fIhttps://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3066.txt\fP
text	The text to use for a language definition
.TE

The \fI\<lang\>\fP-\fI\<country\>\fP combination is useful where a country uses a 
different version of a common language (e.g. Swiss-French, would be 
"fr-CH"). The \fI\<lang\>\fP or \fI\<lang\>\fP-\fI\<country\>\fP can be optionally 
surrounded by double quotes (single quotes are not allowed). If no language 
is specified, the default value is \fIx-default\fP. Any \fIx-default\fP entry is 
always listed first.

For example, 3 language definitions including a default value, a 
British English value and a general French value:

.nf
\&  lang="x-default" Elevator, lang="en-gb" Lift, lang="fr" ascenseur
.fi

.SS
\fBXMP structs\fP

XMP structs group XmpText elements together in an array arrangement. The 
elements themselves can contain other structs, allowing complex nested 
array structures to be created. The tags in a struct use the extended XMP 
version of the \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP.

In a struct, the base key (e.g., Xmp.xmpMM.History) contains:

\fBtype=\fP\fI\<array_type\>\fP

where \fI\<array_type\>\fP is 'Alt' for XmpAlt, 'Bag' for XmpBag or 'Seq' for XmpSeq.

Each numbered base key (e.g., Xmp.xmpMM.History[n]) contains the 
string: `type="Struct"` and each numbered base key plus value type 
(e.g. Xmp.xmpMM.History[n]/stEvt:action), contains the data.

For example, the Xmp.xmpMM.History tag recording that a file has been 
converted from tiff to JPEG, then saved.

.nf
\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History                            XmpText     0  type="Seq"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]                         XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:action            XmpText     7  derived
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[1]/stEvt:parameters        XmpText    62  converted from image/tiff to image/jpeg, saved to new location
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]                         XmpText     0  type="Struct"
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:action            XmpText     5  saved
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:instanceID        XmpText    40  xmp.iid:89A4EB97412C88632107D65978304F45
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:when              XmpText    25  2021-08-13T10:12:09+01:00
\&  Xmp.xmpMM.History[2]/stEvt:softwareAgent     XmpText    21  MySuperPhotoFixer 1.0
.fi
 
For an example of modifying a struct, see \fISetting an XMP struct value\fP.

More information about structs is available from: \fIhttps://wwwimages2.adobe.com/content/dam/acom/en/devnet/xmp/pdfs/XMP%20SDK%20Release%20cc-2016-08/XMPSpecificationPart1.pdf#G5.873540\fP

.ne 40
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
\fBexiv2\fP can read an optional configuration file, which allows 
additional lens definitions to be added to translated output. On UNIX based  
systems, this file is called \fI.exiv2\fP and on Windows, \fIexiv2.ini\fP. 
The file is searched for first in the current directory, then in the 
home directory (on UNIX based systems, \fI~/\fP and on Windows, \fI%USERPROFILE%\\\fP).
.sp 1
You can determine the name of the file and where it is searched for, 
with the command:
.sp 1
.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --verbose --version --grep config_path
\&  exiv2 1.0.0.9
\&  config_path=/Users/rmills/.exiv2
.fi
.sp 1
The configuration file uses the Windows \fI.ini\fP format (see \fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file\fP)
and has sections for each of the major camera manufactures: Canon, Minolta, 
Nikon, Olympus, Pentax and Sony. The configuration file definitions override any existing 
values.
.br
.sp 1
For example, to add a new lens definition, first obtain the lensID for 
your camera:
.sp 1
.nf

\&  $ curl --silent -O https://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg
\&  $ exiv2 --print v --grep lens/i Stonehenge.jpg
\&  0x0083 Nikon3       LensType           Byte       1  14
\&  0x0084 Nikon3       Lens               Rational   4  180/10 2500/10 35/10 63/10
\&  0x008b Nikon3       LensFStops         Undefined  4  55 1 12 0
\&  0x000c NikonLd3     LensIDNumber       Byte       1  146
\&  0x000d NikonLd3     LensFStops         Byte       1  55
.fi
.sp 1
Then using the 'LensIDNumber' value (i.e., 146), add the following text to 
the configuration file:
.sp 1
.nf
\&  [nikon]
\&  146=Robin's Sigma Lens
.fi
.sp 1
The text will now appear when the translated print option is used:
.sp 1
.nf
\&  $ exiv2 --print t --grep lens/i Stonehenge.jpg
\&  Exif.Nikon3.LensType                         Byte        1  D G VR
\&  Exif.Nikon3.Lens                             Rational    4  18-250mm F3.5-6.3
\&  Exif.Nikon3.LensFStops                       Undefined   4  4.58333
\&  Exif.NikonLd3.LensIDNumber                   Byte        1  Robin's Sigma Lens
\&  Exif.NikonLd3.LensFStops                     Byte        1  F4.6
.fi
.sp 1
.ne 40
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fI*.jpg\fP
Prints a summary of the Exif information for all the JPEG files in the current 
directory (the same as \fBexiv2\fP \fBprint\fP \fI*.jpg\fP). The summary 
is brief and does not use the Family.Group.Tagname format.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--grep\fP \fIdate/i\fP \fIhttps://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg\fP
Prints tags in \fIhttps://clanmills.com/Stonehenge.jpg\fP, where the key 
(see \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP) contains the string \fIdate\fP (\fI/i\fP searches case 
insensitive). When not including \fB--print\fP \fImode\fP or 
\fB--Print\fP \fIflgs\fP, the default output becomes \fB--print\fP \fIa\fP 
(i.e., print all).
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--print\fP \fIi\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Prints the IPTC datasets in \fIimage.jpg\fP.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--Print\fP \fIkytEX\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Prints (with finer grained control) the Exif tags and XMP properties in 
\fIimage.jpg\fP. The tag's key (see \fBExiv2 key syntax\fP), type and 
translated value are displayed.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fBrename\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Renames \fIimage.jpg\fP (taken on 13\-Nov\-05 at 22:58:31) to 20051113_225831.jpg.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--rename\fP \fI":basename:_%Y-%m"\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Renames \fIimage.jpg\fP using the basename (i.e., '\fIimage\fP') and values 
defined in \fBiconv_open\fP(3). e.g., image_2005-11.jpg. The values for time 
and date are taken from the Exif metadata.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--extract\fP \fIt\fP \fIimage1.jpg\fP \fIimage2.jpg\fP
Extracts (copies) the Exif thumbnails from \fIimage1.jpg\fP into 
image1-thumb.jpg and from \fIimage2.jpg\fP into image2-thumb.jpg.
.TP
.sp 1
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--insert\fP \fIt\fP \fIimage1.jpg\fP \fIimage2.jpg\fP
Inserts (copies) thumbnails image1-thumb.jpg into \fIimage1.jpg\fP and 
image2-thumb.jpg into \fIimage2.jpg\fP.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--extract\fP \fIp1,2\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Extracts (copies) previews 1 and 2 from \fIimage.jpg\fP, into image-preview1.jpg 
and image-preview2.jpg. Use \fBexiv2\fP \fB--print\fP \fIp\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP 
to display a list of available previews for \fIimage.jpg\fP.
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--extract\fP \fIX\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Extracts (copies) metadata tags from \fIimage.jpg\fP, into an XMP sidecar file, 
image.xmp. In the process, this converts selected Exif tags and IPTC datasets to 
XMP properties.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--insert\fP \fIX\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Inserts (copies) metadata from an XMP sidecar file, image.xmp, into \fIimage.jpg\fP. 
The resulting Exif tags and IPTC datasets are converted from the equivalent XMP 
properties in the sidecar file.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--extract\fP \fIX\fP \fB--Modify\fP "\fIadd Xmp.dc.subject Sunset\fP" \fIimage.jpg\fP
Extracts (copies) metadata tags from \fIimage.jpg\fP, applies \fB--Modify\fP 
\fIcmd\fP to those tags and then saves in an XMP sidecar file, image.xmp. 
While saving, selected Exif tags and IPTC datasets are converted to XMP properties. 
Multiple \fB--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP and \fB--modify\fP \fIcmdfile\fP can be used.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--extract\fP \fIX-\fP \fIimage1.jpg\fP | \fBexiv2\fP \fB--insert\fP \fIX-\fP \fIimage2.jpg\fP
Extracts (copies) the \fIimage1.jpg\fP metadata as XMP sidecar data and 
inserts it directly into \fIimage2.jpg\fP. \fB--Modify\fP \fIcmd\fP and \fB--modify\fP 
\fIcmdfile\fP can also be added when extracting from \fIimage1.jpg\fP.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fBdelete\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Deletes all the metadata in \fIimage.jpg\fP
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--delete\fP \fItC\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Deletes the thumbnail and ICC profile in \fIimage.jpg\fP
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--adjust\fP \fI1:00:00\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Adjusts Exif timestamps in \fIimage.jpg\fP, adding 1 hour
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--Modify\fP \fI"set Exif.Photo.UserComment charset=Ascii New Exif comment"\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Sets the Exif comment in \fIimage.jpg\fP, to an ASCII string with the value '\fINew Exif comment\fP'.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--Modify\fP \fI"set Exif.GPSInfo.GPSLatitude 4/1 15/1 33/1"\fP \fB--Modify\fP \fI"set Exif.GPSInfo.GPSLatitudeRef N"\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Sets the latitude to 4 degrees, 15 minutes and 33 seconds north in 
\fIimage.jpg\fP. The Exif standard stipulates that the GPSLatitude 
tag consists of three Rational numbers for the degrees, minutes and 
seconds of the latitude and GPSLatitudeRef contains either 'N' or 'S' 
for north or south latitude respectively.


.TP
\fBexiv2 \--Modify\fP \fI"reg myprefix http://ns.myprefix.me/"\fP \fB\--Modify\fP \fI"add Xmp.myprefix.Whom Mr. Mills" Stonehenge.jpg\fP
Registers a new XMP namespace called 'http://ns.myprefix.me/' and a new 
XMP group called 'myprefix'. This new Group has a new 'Whom' tag added to it.
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fB--location\fP \fI/tmp\fP \fB--suffix\fP \fI.CRW\fP \fI/data/*.JPG\fP	
Copy all metadata from CRW files in the \fI/tmp\fP directory to JPG files 
with corresponding basenames in the \fI/data\fP directory. Note that this 
copies metadata as is, without any modifications to adapt it to the 
requirements of the target format. Some tags copied like this may not make 
sense in the target image.
.sp 1
.TP
\fBexiv2\fP \fBfixiso\fP \fIimage.jpg\fP
Adds the Exif ISO metadata (if missing) to \fIimage.jpg\fP. This is for 
Nikon and Canon cameras only and copies the camera maker's value into the Exif 
metadata.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBTZ\fP
This is the timezone to use when adjusting for daylight savings time (DST) and 
affects the changing of the the time and date (e.g., when adjusting or 
renaming). See \fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones\fP 
for a list of valid values to use. The variable is not set by default for 
Windows and an attempt is made to obtain the timezone from the OS. If this 
fails, the DST rules for the United States are used. This can be corrected 
by defining \fBTZ\fP.
.SH NOTES
For further help, see the Exiv2 wiki: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/wiki\fP
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/issues\fP
.SH COPYRIGHT
The Exiv2 project is released under the GNU GPLv2 license: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/blob/main/COPYING\fP

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBcurl\fP(1), \fBxmllint\fP(1), \fBiconv_open\fP(3), \fBstrftime\fP(3), 

Exiv2 'modify' command examples: \fIhttps://exiv2.org/sample.html#modify\fP
All Exiv2 tags, listing the \fIkey\fP and default \fItype\fP: \fIhttps://exiv2.org/metadata.html\fP
Exiv2 README.md: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/blob/main/README.md\fP
Exiv2 sample programs: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/blob/main/README-SAMPLES.md\fP
Exiv2 downloads: \fIhttps://www.exiv2.org/download.html\fP
Exiv2 wiki: \fIhttps://github.com/Exiv2/exiv2/wiki\fP
APEX Exposure values: \fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/APEX_system\fP
XMP keys: \fIhttps://www.adobe.com/content/dam/acom/en/devnet/xmp/pdfs/XMPSDKReleasecc-2020/XMPSpecificationPart2.pdf#G4.1128133\fP
XMP structs: \fIhttps://wwwimages2.adobe.com/content/dam/acom/en/devnet/xmp/pdfs/XMP%20SDK%20Release%20cc-2016-08/XMPSpecificationPart1.pdf\fP
International Language Codes: \fIhttps://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3066.txt\fP
Windows INI format: \fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file\fP
TZ Environment variable values: \fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones\fP
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.B exiv2
was written by Andreas Huggel and others.

.br 
Exiv2 project website: \fIhttps://exiv2.org\fP
.br
Exiv2 source code: \fIhttps://github.com/exiv2/exiv2\fP
